Logger (#228)
fortran-lang/stdlib: doc/specs/stdlib_logger.md

---

> title: STDLIB_LOGGER

Author: Good

---

> # The module STDLIB_LOGGER

Author: Good

[TOC]

## Introduction

This module defines a derived type, its methods, a variable, and
constants to be used for the reporting of errors and other
information. The derived type, `logger_t`, is to be used to define
both global and local logger variables. The `logger_t` methods serve
to configure the loggers and use the logger variables to report

> messages to a variable specific list of I/O units, to be termed

Author: Good

`log_units`. The variable, `global_logger`, of type `logger_t`, is
intended to serve as the default global logger. The constants serve as
error flags returned by the optional integer `stat` argument.

The logger variables have the option to:

* change which units receive the log messages;
* report which units receive the log messages;
* precede messages by a blank line;
* precede messages by a time stamp of the form
  `yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.sss`;
* precede messages with the names of a module and procedure;
* follow a message with the `stat` and `errmsg` of the error report
  that prompted the log message;
* follow a message with the `iostat` and `iomsg` of the I/O error
  report that prompted the log message;
* label a message with one of `'INFORMATION: '`, `'WARNING: '`,
  `'ERROR: '`, or `'I/O ERROR: '`;
* indent subsequent lines of the messages; and
* format the text to fit within a maximum column width.

Note: Loggers of type `logger_t` normally report their messages to I/O
units in the internal list termed `log_units`. However if `log_units`
is empty then the messages go to the `output_unit` of the intrinsic
module `iso_fortran_env`.

> ## The `STDLIB_LOGGER` constants

Reviewer: I agree, we should use lowercase throughout, as per the style guide.

> ## The `STDLIB_LOGGER` constants

Author: Good

The module defines nine distinct public integer constants for
reporting errors in the `stat` arguments of some of the module's
procedures. The constants, termed error codes, are as follows:

| Error Code | Description |
|------------|-------------|

> | `success` | no error was detected|

Author: I would not prefix stdlib_ to the public constants. That is what the rename list on use statements are for. FWIW I am developing a module for bitsets and have many of the same error codes for that. In particular it has success with the value 0 which is what I expect anyone used to the Fortran STAT arguments would use. Having a stdlib_success in multiple modules just makes the renaming even more complicated. What might help is having a central repository, say stdlib_error_codes.f90, that all the stdlib modules use. FWIW I have such a central repository with, so far, 130+ error codes defined.

> | `success` | no error was detected|

Reviewer 2: having such a central repository with all codes could be a good thing IMO. However, this should be for another PR.
I propose to keep the codes as they are, and open a new issue to propose a `stdlib_error_codes.f90` (or whatever its name would be).

> | `success` | no error was detected|

Author: Good

> | `success` | no error was detected|

Reviewer: Okay, so for now we keep the status codes as is, and we later make them available from a dedicated module so multiple parts of stdlib can reuse them. We already have `stdlib_error.f90` which seems an appropriate place.

| `close_failure` | a `close` statement for an I/O unit failed|
| `invalid_index_error` | the `column` was invalid for the given `line` |
| `non_sequential_error` | the I/O unit did not have `SEQUENTIAL` access|
|`open_failure` | an `open` statement failed |
| `read_only_error` | an output unit did not have an `access` specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'` |
| `unformatted_in_error` | the unit did not have a `form` of `'FORMATTED'`|
|`unopened_in_error`| the unit was not opened|
| `write_fault` | one of the writes to `log_units` failed|

> ## The derived type: logger_t

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `logger_t` - derived type for defining global and local variables
```

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Serves to define 'logger' variables to be used in reporting
significant events encountered during the execution of a program.

### Syntax

> type(logger_t) :: variable

Reviewer 2: ```fortran
type(logger_t) :: variable
```

### Private attributes

| Attribute | Type | Description | Initial value |
|-----------|------|-------------|---------| 
| `add_line` | Logical | Flag to precede output with a blank line |`.true.`|
|`indent_lines` | Logical| Flag to indent subsequent lines by four columns|`.true.`|
|`log_units`|Integer array| List of I/O units used for output| empty|
|`max_width`| Integer | Maximum column width of output | 80 |
|`time_stamp`| Logical | Flag to precede output by a time stamp | `.true.` |
|`units` | Integer | Count of the number of active output units | 0 |

> ## The `stdlib_logger` variable

Reviewer 2: I would move this section after the next one.

The module defines one public variable, `global_logger`, of type
`logger_t`. As might be guessed from its name, `global_logger` is
intended to serve as the default logger for use throughout an
application.

> ### Overview of the `logger_t` methods

Reviewer 2: This should be part of the "derived type: logger_t" section
```suggestion
### Public `logger_t` methods
```

> The module defines twelve public procedures: one function and eleven

Reviewer 2: Are there any private methods? If there are, should they be mentioned here in the specs?

Reviewer: Hmm, I don't think so. Private methods are specific to the implementation, not the API. I think the spec should describe the API and behavior and not the internals.

Reviewer 2: Ok. I see your point. I agree with you.

> subroutines. All are methods of the `logger_t` derived type. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subroutines.  The
```
the sentence "All are methods of the `logger_t` derived type." is not needed if this section is part of "derived type: logger_t"

> procedures are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
methods are:
```

> |Procedure|Class|Description|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Method|Class|Description|
```

|---------|-----|-----------|

> |`add_log_file`|Subroutine|opens a file using `newunit`, and adds the resulting unit to the `log_units` list|

Reviewer 2: For later, and if desired: a hyperlink to the corresponding section could be added.

|`add_log_unit`| Subroutine|adds an existing unit to the `log_units` list|
|`configure`|Subroutine| configures the details of the logging process|
|`configuration`|Subroutine| reports the details of the logging configuration|
|`log_error`| Subroutine|sends a message prepended by `'ERROR: '` optionally followed by a `stat` or `errmsg`|
|`log_information`|Subroutine| sends a message prepended by `'INFORMATION: '`|
|`log_io_error`|Subroutine|sends a message prepended by `'I/O ERROR: '` optionally followed by an `iostat` or `iomsg`|
|`log_message`|Subroutine| sends a message|
|`log_text_error`|Subroutine| sends a message describing an error found in a line of text|
|`log_units_assigned`|Function| returns the number of active I/O units in `log_units`|
|`log_warning`|Subroutine| sends a message prepended by `'WARNING: '`|

> |`remove_log_unit`|Subroutine| removes the `unit` number from the `log_units` array|

Reviewer 2: Should it be added a `remove_log_file`?

Author: FWIW it can be done, but I don't keep track of `log_units` by filename so the logic will be more convoluted and may not be reliable. I could do `inquire(file=filename,number=unit), but the standard doesn't guarantee that the file is connected with one unit number. I could also keep a separate list of filenames with corresponding unit numbers for files opened with `add_log_file`.

## Specification of the `logger_t` methods

### `add_log_file` - open a file and add its unit to `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Opens a formatted, sequential access, output file, `filename` using
`newunit` and adds the resulting unit number to the logger's
`log_units` array.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % add_log_file(interface)]]( filename, unit [, action, position, status, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```fortran
call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % add_log_file(interface)]]( filename, unit [, action, position, status, stat ] )
\```
```

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar variable of type `logger_t`. It is an `intent(inout)` argument. It shall be the logger to add the file to its `log_units`.

`filename`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is

> an `intent(in)` argument. It shall be the name of the file to be opened.

Reviewer 2: I guess this is the file for the logger, right?

#### Class. 

Subroutine.

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar variable of type `logger_t`. It is an
`intent(inout)` argument. It shall be the logger to direct its output
to `unit`.

`unit`: shall be a scalar default integer expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument. It shall be the unit number for an opened,
  sequential, formatted file with an action specifier of `'WRITE'` or
  `'READWRITE'`.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer variable. It is
  an `intent(out)` argument. If absent  and `unit` could not be added
  to self's `log_units` processing will stop with an informative
  message as the stop code. If present it shall have the value of one
  of the module's error codes indicating any errors found with
  `unit`. The codes are
  * `success` - no problem found
  * `non_sequential_error` - `unit` did not have an `access` specifier of
    `'SEQUENTIAL'`
  * `read_only_error` - `unit` had an `action` specifier of `'READ'`
    when it needs a specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'`
  * `unformatted_in_error` - `unit` did not have a `form` specifier of
    `'FORMATTED'`
  * `unopened_in_error` - `unit` was not opened

#### Example

>      program main
>          use stdlib_logger
>          ...
>          character(256) :: iomsg
>          integer :: iostat, unit, stat
>          ...
>          open( newunit=unit, 'error_log.txt',      &
>                form='formatted', status='replace', &
>                position='rewind', err=999,         &
>                action='read', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )
>          ...
>          call global_logger % add_log_unit( unit, stat )
>          select case ( stat )
>          ...
>          case ( read_only_error )
>              error stop 'Unable to write to "error_log.txt".'
>          ...
>          end select
>          ...
>      999 error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".
>          ...
> 	 end program main

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program demo_add_log_unit
    use stdlib_logger, only: global_logger, read_only_error
     ...
     character(256) :: iomsg
     integer :: iostat, unit, stat
     ...
     open( newunit=unit, 'error_log.txt',      &
          form='formatted', status='replace', &
          position='rewind', err=999,         &
          action='read', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )
     ...
     call global_logger % add_log_unit( unit, stat )
     select case ( stat )
     ...
     case ( read_only_error )
         error stop 'Unable to write to "error_log.txt".'
     ...
     end select
     ...
     999 error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".
     ...
end program demo_add_log_unit
```

Author: Good

#### Class

Pure subroutine.

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar variable of type `logger_t`. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It shall be the logger to be configured.

`add_line` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to start
  output with a blank line, and to `.false.` otherwise.
  
`indent` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to
  indent subsequent lines by four spaces, and to `.false.` to
  not indent.

`max_width` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to a positive value
  bigger than four to define the maximum width of the output,
  otherwise there is no maximum width.
  
`time_stamp` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to
  precede output with a time stamp of the form 'yyyy-mm-dd
  hh:mm:ss.sss', and to `.false.` otherwise.
  
#### Example

     program main
         use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger
         ...
         call global % configure( indent=.false., max_width=72 )
         ...

> 	  end program main

Reviewer: I agree. The second line should read:

```
use stdlib_logger, only: global => global_logger
```

> 	  end program main

Author: Good

> 	  end program main

Reviewer 2: > I agree. The second line should read:
> 
> ```
> use stdlib_logger, only: global => global_logger
> ```

Done

> ### log_error - Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `log_error` - Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units`
```

`log_units`. The variable, `global_logger`, of type `logger_type`, is
intended to serve as the default global logger. The constants serve as
error flags returned by the optional integer `stat` argument.

The logger variables have the option to:

* change which units receive the log messages;
* report which units receive the log messages;
* precede messages by a blank line;
* precede messages by a time stamp of the form
  `yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.sss`;
* precede messages with the names of a module and procedure;
* follow a message with the `stat` and `errmsg` of the error report
  that prompted the log message;
* follow a message with the `iostat` and `iomsg` of the I/O error
  report that prompted the log message;
* label a message with one of `'INFO: '`, `'WARN: '`,
  `'ERROR: '`, or `'I/O ERROR: '`;
* indent subsequent lines of the messages; and
* format the text to fit within a maximum column width.

Note: Loggers of type `logger_type` normally report their messages to I/O
units in the internal list termed `log_units`. However if `log_units`
is empty then the messages go to the `output_unit` of the intrinsic
module `iso_fortran_env`.

> ## The `STDLIB_LOGGER` constants

Reviewer 3: The module name here was left in uppercase
```suggestion
## The `stdlib_logger` constants
```

The module defines nine distinct public integer constants for
reporting errors in the `stat` arguments of some of the module's
procedures. The constants, termed error codes, are as follows:

Error Code             | Description
-----------------------|------------
`success`              | no error was detected
`close_failure`        | a `close` statement for an I/O unit failed
`invalid_index_error`  | the `column` was invalid for the given `line`
`non_sequential_error` | the I/O unit did not have `SEQUENTIAL` access
`open_failure`         | an `open` statement failed
`read_only_error`      | an output unit did not have an `access` specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'`
`unformatted_in_error` | the unit did not have a `form` of `'FORMATTED'`
`unopened_in_error`    | the unit was not opened
`write_fault`          | one of the writes to `log_units` failed

## The derived type: logger_type

### Status

Experimental

### Description

Serves to define 'logger' variables to be used in reporting
significant events encountered during the execution of a program.

### Syntax

> type(logger_type) :: variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`type([[stdlib_logger(module):logger_type(type)]]) :: variable`
```

|------------------|---------------|-------------------------------------------------|--------------
| `add_blank_line` | Logical       | Flag to precede output with a blank line        | `.false.`
| `indent_lines`   | Logical       | Flag to indent subsequent lines by four columns | `.true.`
| `log_units`      | Integer array | List of I/O units used for output               | empty
| `max_width`      | Integer       | Maximum column width of output                  | 0
| `time_stamp`     | Logical       | Flag to precede output by a time stamp          | `.true.`
| `units`          | Integer       | Count of the number of active output units      | 0

## The `stdlib_logger` variable

The module defines one public variable, `global_logger`, of type
`logger_type`. As might be guessed from its name, `global_logger` is
intended to serve as the default logger for use throughout an
application.

### Public `logger_type` methods

The module defines twelve public procedures: one function and eleven
subroutines.  The
procedures are:

Procedure            | Class      | Description
---------------------|------------|------------

> `add_log_file`       | Subroutine | Opens a file using `newunit`, and adds the resulting unit to the `log_units` list
> `add_log_unit`       | Subroutine | Adds an existing unit to the `log_units` list
> `configure`          | Subroutine | Configures the details of the logging process
> `configuration`      | Subroutine | Reports the details of the logging configuration
> `log_error`          | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'ERROR: '` optionally followed by a `stat` or `errmsg`
> `log_information`    | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'INFO: '`
> `log_io_error`       | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'I/O ERROR: '` optionally followed by an `iostat` or `iomsg`
> `log_message`        | Subroutine | Sends a message
> `log_text_error`     | Subroutine | Sends a message describing an error found in a line of text
> `log_units_assigned` | Function   | Returns the number of active I/O units in `log_units`
> `log_warning`        | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'WARN: '`
> `remove_log_unit`    | Subroutine | Removes the `unit` number from the `log_units` array

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`add_log_file`](./stdlib_logger.html#add_log_file-open-a-file-and-add-its-unit-to-self-log_units)       | Subroutine | Opens a file using `newunit`, and adds the resulting unit to the `log_units` list
[`add_log_unit`](./stdlib_logger.html#add_log_unit-add-a-unit-to-the-array-self-log_units)       | Subroutine | Adds an existing unit to the `log_units` list
[`configuration`](./stdlib_logger.html#configuration-report-a-loggers-configuration)      | Subroutine | Reports the details of the logging configuration
[`configure`](./stdlib_logger.html#configure-configure-the-logging-process)          | Subroutine | Configures the details of the logging process
[`log_error`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_error-writes-the-string-message-to-self-log_units)          | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'ERROR: '` optionally followed by a `stat` or `errmsg`
[`log_information`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_information-writes-the-string-message-to-self-log_units)    | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'INFO: '`
[`log_io_error`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_io_error-write-the-string-message-to-self-log_units)       | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'I/O ERROR: '` optionally followed by an `iostat` or `iomsg`
[`log_message`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_message-write-the-string-message-to-self-log_units)        | Subroutine | Sends a message
[`log_text_error`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_text_error-send-a-message-to-self-log_units-describing-an-error)     | Subroutine | Sends a message describing an error found in a line of text
[`log_units_assigned`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_units_assigned-returns-the-number-of-active-io-units) | Function   | Returns the number of active I/O units in `log_units`
[`log_warning`](./stdlib_logger.html#log_warning-write-the-string-message-to-log_units)        | Subroutine | Sends a message prepended by `'WARN: '`
[`remove_log_unit`](./stdlib_logger.html#remove_log_unit-remove-unit-from-self-log_units)    | Subroutine | Removes the `unit` number from the `log_units` array
```

Links to the specs of the different methods. Up to others to accept this suggestion or not.

## Specification of the `logger_type` methods

### `add_log_file` - open a file and add its unit to `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Opens a formatted, sequential access, output file, `filename` using
`newunit` and adds the resulting unit number to the logger's
`log_units` array.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % add_log_file(interface)]]( filename [, unit, action, position, status, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):add_log_file(bound)]]( filename [, unit, action, position, status, stat ] )`
```

  the values `'OLD'`, `'NEW'`, `'REPLACE'`, or `'UNKNOWN'`. It has the
  default value of `'REPLACE'`.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer variable. It
  is an `intent(out)` argument. If present, on return it will have the
  value `success` if `filename` could be opened, the value
  `read_only_error` if the `action` specifier is `"READ"`, or the value
  `open_failure` if `filename` could not be opened. If absent and `filename`
  could not be opened then processing will stop with an informative message as the stop code.

#### Example

```fortran
program demo_global_logger
    use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger
    ...
    integer :: unit, stat
    ...
    call global % add_log_file( 'error_log.txt', unit, &
        position='asis', stat=stat )
    if ( stat /= success ) then
         error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".'
    end if
     ...
end program demo_global_logger
```

### `add_log_unit` - add a unit to the array `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Adds `unit` to the array of `self % log_units`. The `unit` shall
be the unit number for an opened, sequential, formatted file with an

> `action` specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'`. Failure of `unit` to meet

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`action` specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'`. If `unit` fail to meet
```

Reviewer 2: Should it be:
"If `unit` fails to meet", instead of "fail"?

Reviewer 3: This suggestion is outdated (Yes, it should be. "it fails" ~and I failed it~) xD

> program demo_global_logger
>     use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger
>     ...
>     integer :: unit, stat
>     ...
>     call global % add_log_file( 'error_log.txt', unit, &
>         position='asis', stat=stat )
>     if ( stat /= success ) then
>          error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".'
>     end if
>      ...
> end program demo_global_logger

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program demo_global_logger
    use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger

    integer :: unit, stat

    call global % add_log_file( 'error_log.txt', unit, &
        position='asis', stat=stat )
    if ( stat /= success ) then
         error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".'
    end if

end program demo_global_logger
```

> those requirements will result cause `stat`, if present, to not be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
those requirements, the `stat` will have a value other than `success`
```

Reviewer 2: I commit it. Thank you.

> `success` and `unit` not to be added to `log_units`, or, if `stat` is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and `unit` will not be added to `log_units`. If `stat` is
```

Author: those requirements will cause `stat`, if present, to not be
`success` and `unit` will not be added to `log_units`. In this case, if `stat` is

Reviewer 3: I fixed my suggestions, thank you.

Author: No problem. It is obvious that I was not at my best in writing that paragraph.

Reviewer 2: Thank you.

> not present, cause processing to stop with an informative string as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
absent, will cause processing to stop with an informative string as
```

the stop code.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % add_log_unit(interface)]]( unit [, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):add_log_unit(bound)]]( unit [, stat ] )`
```

#### Class. 

Subroutine.

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar variable of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(inout)` argument. It shall be the logger to direct its output
to `unit`.

`unit`: shall be a scalar default integer expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument. It shall be the unit number for an opened,
  sequential, formatted file with an action specifier of `'WRITE'` or
  `'READWRITE'`.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer variable. It is
  an `intent(out)` argument. If absent  and `unit` could not be added
  to self's `log_units` processing will stop with an informative
  message as the stop code. If present it shall have the value of one
  of the module's error codes indicating any errors found with
  `unit`. The codes are
  * `success` - no problem found
  * `non_sequential_error` - `unit` did not have an `access` specifier of
    `'SEQUENTIAL'`
  * `read_only_error` - `unit` had an `action` specifier of `'READ'`
    when it needs a specifier of `'WRITE'` or `'READWRITE'`
  * `unformatted_in_error` - `unit` did not have a `form` specifier of
    `'FORMATTED'`
  * `unopened_in_error` - `unit` was not opened

#### Example

```fortran

> program demo_add_log_unit
>     use stdlib_logger, only: global_logger, read_only_error
>      ...
>      character(256) :: iomsg
>      integer :: iostat, unit, stat
>      ...
>      open( newunit=unit, 'error_log.txt',      &
>           form='formatted', status='replace', &
>           position='rewind', err=999,         &
>           action='read', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )
>      ...
>      call global_logger % add_log_unit( unit, stat )
>      select case ( stat )
>      ...
>      case ( read_only_error )
>          error stop 'Unable to write to "error_log.txt".'
>      ...
>      end select
>      ...
>      999 error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".
>      ...
> end program demo_add_log_unit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program demo_add_log_unit
    use stdlib_logger, only: global_logger, read_only_error

     character(256) :: iomsg
     integer :: iostat, unit, stat

     open( newunit=unit, 'error_log.txt',      &
          form='formatted', status='replace', &
          position='rewind', err=999,         &
          action='read', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )

     call global_logger % add_log_unit( unit, stat )
     select case ( stat )

     case ( read_only_error )
         error stop 'Unable to write to "error_log.txt".'

     end select

     999 error stop 'Unable to open "error_log.txt".

end program demo_add_log_unit
```

```

### `configuration` - report a logger's configuration

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Reports the configuration of a logger.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % configuration(interface)]]( [ add_blankline, indent, max_width, time_stamp, log_units ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):configuration(bound)]]( [ add_blankline, indent, max_width, time_stamp, log_units ] )`
```

`intent(in)` argument. It shall be the logger whose configuration is reported.

`add_blank_line` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  variable. It is an `intent(out)` argument. A value of `.true.`
  starts output with a blank line, and `.false.` otherwise.

`indent` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical variable. It
  is an `intent(out)` argument. A value of `.true.` indents subsequent
  lines by four spaces, and `.false.` otherwise.

`max_width` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer
  variable. It is an `intent(out)` argument. A positive value bigger
  than four defines the maximum width of the output, otherwise there
  is no maximum width.

`time_stamp` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  variable. It is an `intent(out)` argument. A value of `.true.`
  precedes output with a time stamp of the form 'yyyy-mm-dd
  hh:mm:ss.sss', and `.false.` otherwise.

`log_units` (optional): shall be a rank one allocatable array
  variable of type default integer. It is an `intent(out)`
  argument. On return it shall be the elements of the `self`'s `log_units`
  array.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
>         integer, intent(in) :: unit
>         ...
>         integer, allocatable :: log_units(:)
>         ...
>         call logger % configuration( log_units=log_units )
>         if ( size(log_units) == 0 ) then
>            call add_logger_unit( unit )
>         end if
>         ..
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
   
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    contains
  
    subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
        integer, intent(in) :: unit
  
        integer, allocatable :: log_units(:)
  
        call logger % configuration( log_units=log_units )
        if ( size(log_units) == 0 ) then
           call add_logger_unit( unit )
        end if
  
    end subroutine example_sub
  
end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Question: should we call this example of module `demo_example_mod`?

Reviewer: I don't think prefixing with "demo" adds to the meaning. It's similar to "example" which is already in the name. I think it's fine as is, though I also wouldn't object to a more context-specific name.

```

### `configure` - configure the logging process

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Configures the logging process for self.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % configure(interface)]]( [ add_blank_line, indent, max_width, time_stamp ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call :self % [[logger_type(type):configure(bound)]]( [ add_blank_line, indent, max_width, time_stamp ] )`
```

#### Class

Pure subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar variable of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(inout)` argument. It shall be the logger to be configured.

`add_blank_line` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to start
  output with a blank line, and to `.false.` otherwise.
  
`indent` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to
  indent subsequent lines by four spaces, and to `.false.` to
  not indent.

`max_width` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to a positive value
  bigger than four to define the maximum width of the output,
  otherwise there is no maximum width.
  
`time_stamp` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. Set to `.true.` to
  precede output with a time stamp of the form 'yyyy-mm-dd
  hh:mm:ss.sss', and to `.false.` otherwise.
  
#### Example

```fortran
program demo_configure

>       use stdlib_logger, only: global => global_logger
>       
>       call global % configure( indent=.false., max_width=72 )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    use stdlib_logger, only: global => global_logger
      
    call global % configure( indent=.false., max_width=72 )
```

      
end program demo_configure
```

### `log_error` - Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units` with optional additional text.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_error(interface)]]( message [, module, procedure, stat, errmsg ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call :self % [[logger_type(type):log_error(bound)]]( message [, module, procedure, stat, errmsg ] )`
```

if `stat` or `errmsg` are present they are written.

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger used to send the message.

`message`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument.

`module` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the module containing the `log_error` call.

`procedure` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_error` call.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer expression. It
  is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the `stat` specifier of
  the subroutine call or intrinsic statement that prompted the
  `log_error` call.

`errmsg` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the
  `errmsg` specifier of the subroutine call or intrinsic statement
  that prompted the `log_error` call.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
> 	    use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       real, allocatable :: a(:)
>       ...
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>       ...
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub( size )
>         integer, intent(in) :: size
>         character(128) :: errmsg, message
>         integer        :: stat
>         allocate( a(size), stat=stat, errmsg=errmsg )
>         if ( stat /= 0 ) then
>           write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
>               "Allocation of A failed with SIZE = ", size
>           call logger % log_error( message,                   &
>                                    module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',    &
>                                    procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB', &
>                                    stat = stat,               &
>                                    errmsg = errmsg )
>         end if
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
    
    real, allocatable :: a(:)
    
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub( size)
        integer, intent(in) :: size
        character(128) :: errmsg, message
        integer        :: stat
        allocate( a(size), stat=stat, errmsg=errmsg )
        if ( stat /= 0 ) then
            write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
                "Allocation of A failed with SIZE = ", size
            call logger % log_error( message,                   &
                                   module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',    &
                                   procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB', &
                                   stat = stat,               &
                                   errmsg = errmsg )
          end if
    end subroutine example_sub

end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Name of the module?

```

### `log_information` - Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units` with optional additional text.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_information(interface)]]( message [, module, procedure ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):log_information(bound)]]( message [, module, procedure ] )`
```

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active, a time stamp is written, followed
by `module` and `procedure` if present, and then
`message` is written with the prefix `'INFO: '`.

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger used to send the message.

`message`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument.

`module` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the module containing the `log_information` call.

`procedure` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_information` call.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       real, allocatable :: a(:)
>       ...
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub( selection )
>         integer, intent(out) :: selection
>         character(128) :: errmsg, message
>         integer        :: stat
>         write(*,'(a)') "Enter an integer to select a widget"
>         read(*,'(i0)') selection
>         write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
>               "The user selected ", selection
>         call logger % log_information( message,               &
>             module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD', procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB' )
>         ...
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
    
    real, allocatable :: a(:)
    
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub( selection )
        integer, intent(out) :: selection
        character(128) :: errmsg, message
        integer        :: stat
        write(*,'(a)') "Enter an integer to select a widget"
        read(*,'(i0)') selection
        write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
              "The user selected ", selection
        call logger % log_information( message,               &
            module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD', procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB' )
        
    end subroutine example_sub
    
end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Name of the module?

```

### `log_io_error` - Write the string `message` to `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units` with
optional additional text.

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active, a time stamp is written
first. Then if `module` or `procedure` are present, they are
written. Then `message` is written with the prefix
`'I/O ERROR: '`. Then if `iostat` or `iomsg` are present they are
written.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_io_error(interface)]]( message [, module, procedure, iostat, iomsg ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):log_io_error(bound)]]( message [, module, procedure, iostat, iomsg ] )`
```

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments
`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger used to send the message.

`message`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument.

`module` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the module containing the `log_io_error` call.

`procedure` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_io_error` call.

`iostat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the
  `iostat` specifier of the subroutine call or intrinsic statement
  that prompted the `log_io_error` call.

`iomsg` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the
  `iomsg` specifier of the subroutine call or intrinsic statement
  that prompted the `log_io_error` call.

#### Example

```fortran

>     program example
>       use stdlib_logger, global=>global_logger
>       ...
>       character(*), parameter :: filename = 'dummy.txt'
>       integer                 :: iostat, lun
>       character(128)          :: iomsg
>       character(*), parameter :: message = &
> 	    'Failure in opening "dummy.txt".'
> 
>       open( newunit=lun, file = filename, form='formatted', &
>             status='old', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )
>       if ( iostat /= 0 ) then
>         call global % log_io_error( message,               &
>                                     procedure = 'EXAMPLE', &
>                                     iostat=iostat,         &
>                                     iomsg = iomsg )
>         error stop 'Error on opening a file'
>       end if
>       ...
>     end program example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program demo_log_io_error
    use stdlib_logger, global=>global_logger
    
    character(*), parameter :: filename = 'dummy.txt'
    integer                 :: iostat, lun
    character(128)          :: iomsg
    character(*), parameter :: message = &
	    'Failure in opening "dummy.txt".'

    open( newunit=lun, file = filename, form='formatted', &
            status='old', iostat=iostat, iomsg=iomsg )
    if ( iostat /= 0 ) then
        call global % log_io_error( message,               &
                                    procedure = 'EXAMPLE', &
                                    iostat=iostat,         &
                                    iomsg = iomsg )
         error stop 'Error on opening a file'
    end if

end program demo_log_io_error
```

```

### `log_message` - write the string `message` to `self % log_units` 

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Writes the string `message` to `self % log_units` with
  optional additional text.

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active, a time stamp is written,
then `module` and `procedure` are written if present,
followed by `prefix \\ ': '`, if present, and finally `message`.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_message(interface)]]( message [, module, procedure, prefix ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):log_message(bound)]]( message [, module, procedure, prefix ] )`
```

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger used to send the message.

`message`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument.

`module` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the module containing the `log_message` call.

`procedure` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_message` call.
  
`prefix` (optional): shall be a scalar default character expression.
It is an `intent(in)` argument. It will precede `message` with an
`': '` appended.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       real, allocatable :: a(:)
>       ...
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub( selection )
>         integer, intent(out) :: selection
>         integer        :: stat
>         write(*,'(a)') "Enter an integer to select a widget"
>         read(*,'(i0)') selection
>         write( message, '(a, i0)' )          &
>               "The user selected ", selection
>         call logger % log_message( message,                   &
>                                    module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',    &
>                                    procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB', &
>                                    prefix = `INFO' )
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
    
    real, allocatable :: a(:)
    
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub( selection )
        integer, intent(out) :: selection
        integer        :: stat
        write(*,'(a)') "Enter an integer to select a widget"
        read(*,'(i0)') selection
        write( message, '(a, i0)' )          &
              "The user selected ", selection
        call logger % log_message( message,                   &
                                   module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',    &
                                   procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB', &
                                   prefix = `INFO' )
    end subroutine example_sub
    
end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Name of example?

```

### `log_text_error` - send a message to `self % log_units` describing an error

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

`log_text_error` sends a message to `self % log_units`
describing an error found in a line of text.

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active first a time stamp is
written. Then if `filename` or `line_number` are present they are
written with `column`. Then `line` is written. Then a caret, '^', is
written below `line` at the column indicated by `column`. Then
`summary` is written below the caret.

#### Syntax

> `call self % [[logger_type(bound):log_text_error(bound)]]( line, column, summary [, filename, line_number, caret, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):log_text_error(bound)]]( line, column, summary [, filename, line_number, caret, stat ] )`
```

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_text_error(interface)]]( line, column, summary [, filename, line_number, caret, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(bound):log_text_error(bound)]]( line, column, summary [, filename, line_number, caret, stat ] )`
```

  `intent(in)` argument. It should be a description of the error in
  `line`.

`filename` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the file, if any, in which `line` was found.

`line_number` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the line
  number in `filename` associated with `line`.

`caret` (optional): shall be a scalar default single character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. If present it will be
  placed below `line` on output to indicate the starting location of
  the error. It has a default value of '^'.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer variable. It
  is an `intent(out)` argument. If present it will have the value of
  `success` if no errors were encountered, the value
  `index_invalid_error` if `column` is less than one or greater than
  `len(line)+1`, or the value `write_fault` if the writes to any of
  `log_units` failed. If `stat` is absent and would not have the value
  `success` then processing will stop with an informative stop code.

#### Example

```fortran

>     program example
>         use stdlib_logger
>         ...
>         character(*), parameter :: filename = 'dummy.txt'
>         integer                 :: col_no, line_no, lun
>         character(128)          :: line
>         character(*), parameter :: message = 'Bad text found.'
> 
>         open( newunit=lun, file = filename, statu='old', &
> 		    form='formatted' )
>         line_no = 0
>         do
>             read( lun, fmt='(a)', end=900 ) line
>             line_no = line_no + 1
>             call check_line( line, status, col_no )
>             if ( status /= 0 )
>               call global_logger % log_text_error( line, &
>                   col_no, message, filename, line_no )
>               error stop 'Error in reading ' // filename
>             end if
>             ...
>         end do
>     900 continue
>         ...
>     end program example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program demo_log_text_error
    use stdlib_logger
    
    character(*), parameter :: filename = 'dummy.txt'
    integer                 :: col_no, line_no, lun
    character(128)          :: line
    character(*), parameter :: message = 'Bad text found.'

    open( newunit=lun, file = filename, statu='old', &
		    form='formatted' )
    line_no = 0
    do
        read( lun, fmt='(a)', end=900 ) line
        line_no = line_no + 1
        call check_line( line, status, col_no )
        if ( status /= 0 )
            call global_logger % log_text_error( line, &
                  col_no, message, filename, line_no )
            error stop 'Error in reading ' // filename
        end if
    end do
    900 continue
   
end program demo_log_text_error
```

```

### `log_units_assigned` - returns the number of active I/O units

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Returns the number of active I/O units in `self % log_units`

#### Syntax

> `Result = [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_units_assigned(function)]]()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`result = self % [[logger_type(type):log_units_assigned(bound)]]()`
```

#### Class

Elemental function

#### Argument

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger whose state is queried.

#### Result character

The result shall be a scalar of type default integer.

#### Result value
The result is the number of I/O units in
  `self % log_units`.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
>         integer, intent(in) :: unit
>         ...
>         integer, allocatable :: log_units(:)
>         ...
>         if ( logger % log_units_assigned() == 0 ) then
>             call logger % add_log_unit( unit )
>         end if
>         ...
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
    
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
        integer, intent(in) :: unit
        
        integer, allocatable :: log_units(:)
        
        if ( logger % log_units_assigned() == 0 ) then
            call logger % add_log_unit( unit )
        end if
        
    end subroutine example_sub
    
end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Name of the module?

```

### `log_warning` - write the string `message` to `log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Writes the string `message` to `log_units` with
  optional additional text.

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active, a time stamp is written,
then `module` and `procedure` if present, then
`message` is written with the prefix `WARN: '`.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % log_warning(interface)]]( message [, module, procedure ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):log_warning(bound)]]( message [, module, procedure ] )`
```

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument. It is the logger used to send the message.

`message`: shall be a scalar default character expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument.

`module`: (optional) shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the module containing the `log_warning` call.

`procedure`: (optional) shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_warning` call.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger
>       ...
>       real, allocatable :: a(:)
>       type(logger_type) :: logger
>       ...
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub( size, stat )
>         integer, intent(in)  :: size
>         integer, intent(out) :: stat
>         allocate( a(size) )
>         if ( stat /= 0 ) then
>           write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
>               "Allocation of A failed with SIZE = ", size
>           call logger % log_warning( message,                 &
>                                      module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',  &
>                                      procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB' )
>         end if
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger
    
    real, allocatable :: a(:)
    type(logger_type) :: logger
    
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub( size, stat )
        integer, intent(in)  :: size
        integer, intent(out) :: stat
        allocate( a(size) )
        if ( stat /= 0 ) then
            write( message, '(a, i0)' )                    &
              "Allocation of A failed with SIZE = ", size
            call logger % log_warning( message,                 &
                                     module = 'EXAMPLE_MOD',  &
                                     procedure = 'EXAMPLE_SUB' )
          end if
     end subroutine example_sub
     
end module example_mod
```

```

### `remove_log_unit` - remove `unit` from `self % log_units`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Remove `unit` from the `self % log_units` list. If
`close_unit` is present and `.true.` then the corresponding file is
closed. If `unit` is not in `self % log_units` then nothing is done.

#### Syntax

> `call [[stdlib_logger(module):self % remove_log_unit(interface)]]( unit [, close_unit, stat ] )`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`call self % [[logger_type(type):remove_log_unit(bound)]]( unit [, close_unit, stat ] )`
```

#### Class

Subroutine

#### Arguments

`self`: shall be a scalar expression of type `logger_type`. It is an
`intent(inout)` argument. It is the logger whose `log_units` is to be
modified.

`unit`: shall be a scalar default integer expression. It is an
  `intent(in)` argument. It should be one of the I/O `unit` numbers
  in `self % log_units`. If it is not, then nothing is done.

`close_unit` (optional): shall be a scalar default logical
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. If `.true` and `unit` is
  in `self % log_units` then `unit` will be closed, otherwise the I/O unit
  will be unaffected.

`stat` (optional): shall be a scalar default integer variable. It is
  an `intent(out)` argument. If present it has the default value of
  `success`, but has the value `close_failure` if `close_unit` is
  present with the value `.true.`, and `unit` is initially in
  `log_units`, and closing `unit` fails. If `stat` is absent and
  closing the `unit` fails then processing stops with an informative
  stop code.

#### Example

```fortran

>     module  example_mod
>       use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger
>       ...
>     contains
>       ...
>       subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
>         integer, intent(in) :: unit
>         ...
>         call global % remove_log_unit( unit )
>         ...
>       end subroutine example_sub
>       ...
>     end module example_mod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module  example_mod
    use stdlib_logger, global => global_logger
    
    contains
    
    subroutine example_sub(unit, ...)
        integer, intent(in) :: unit
    
        call global % remove_log_unit( unit )
    
    end subroutine example_sub
    
end module example_mod
```

Reviewer 2: Name of the module

#### Behavior

If time stamps are active, a time stamp is written,

> then `module` and `procedure` are written if prsent,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
then `module` and `procedure` are written if present,
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you.

`procedure` (optional): shall be a scalar default character
  expression. It is an `intent(in)` argument. It should be the name of
  the procedure containing the `log_message` call.
  
`prefix` (optional): shall be a scalar default character expression.

> It is an `intent(in)` argument. It will preceed `message` with an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is an `intent(in)` argument. It will precede `message` with an
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you. I commit it.

Author: If `unit` fails to meet
